Hello and welcome back. In this new section, we are going to study .NET assemblies and how
to reverse engineer them using MCP servers connected to dnspy. So first, we take a look
at the evolution of .NET from framework to unified platform. The .NET framework era starts from 2002
and lasts up to 2019. The original .NET framework was Microsoft's first implementation
designed exclusively for Windows. Versions range from 1 to 4.8, with each release adding new
features but maintaining Windows-only compatibility. Applications built on .NET
Framework are tied to the specific version installed on the target machine. So initially,
.NET Framework was only for Windows, does not run on Linux or Mac.
Then came the .NET Core . Microsoft created .NET Core as a complete rewrite
to address the framework's limitations. This version was cross-platform. It runs on
Windows, Mac OS, Linux. It is open-source and modular. .NET Core went through versions
from 1.0 to 3.1. Then came .NET 5 Plus from 2020 to present. Starting with .NET 5, Microsoft unified
the ecosystem under a single .NET brand, dropping Core from the name. So now, you won't see .NET
Core, you will just see .NET. So .NET is the modern version of the .NET platform. This represents
the convergence of .NET Framework and .NET Core into one platform. The versioning jumped from .NET
Core 3.1 directly to .NET 5 to avoid confusion with .NET Framework 4.x. So the last .NET
Framework was 4.8 and the last .NET Core was 3.1 and the latest .NET is 10. So let's take a look
at some differences. The key differences are as follows: Platform support: dotnet framework is
windows only while dotnet core or dotnet 5 plus runs everywhere. Performance. dotnet core and later
versions are significantly faster and more memory efficient. For deployment, dotnet framework requires
a runtime to be pre-installed on the target machine while dotnet supports self-contained
deployments that include runtime but most of the time we will require the end user to install the
dotnet desktop runtime one time and then it can run all the dotnet applications from there on
if you were to make it self-contained the binary would be too big. Open source: dotnet framework is
proprietary while dotnet core or dotnet 5 plus is open source and community driven evolution timeline
The evolution reflects Microsoft's shift from Windows-centric to cloud-first cross-platform development.
However, there are still some older .NET framework binaries lying around,
and therefore we need to be able to reverse engineer them as well.
So there are actually three kinds of binaries which we should be able to reverse engineer.
Let's take a look at some of the examples.
So, as it stands today, you can see that basically there are two main types of assemblies.
You have the .NET framework, which is a legacy one.
And this is one example of a crack me.
You can download all this from the resource section.
And then there is .NET 8.
Recently Microsoft has released .NET 10 and now we don't call it .NET Core anymore.
Previously, it was .NET Core after .NET Framework, .NET Core and then from .NET Core, now we
have just .NET and .NET is .NET 8 and now .NET 10.
So how do we install the MCP server?
Let me show you where the MCP server project lies.
It is created by Agent Smithers in this GitHub.
Although here it shows the releases, but the release here seems to be incomplete.
So what I've done was to build the complete package for you.
I had to download this git clone this and make a lot of modifications to it to get it
to build for the modern .NET as well as the .NET framework.
So you can download my final build from the resource section for this lecture.
Just go to the resource section and download the MCP server zip.
The password to unzip this is www.crackinglessons.net.
After unzipping it, you will find there are two folders here.
One first folder is .NET, the modern .NET, the current one, and the other is the legacy
one, which is .NET Framework 4.8.
So inside here, you will find there are two files which you can put on your desktop as
shortcuts the dnspy which is for 64-bit and the dnspy x86 which is for the x86 binaries
the 32-bit binaries. So this is dotnet 8. Then for the legacy one the folder is here
and over here you also have two main binaries the dnspy for the 64-bit legacy .net framework
and the dnspy x86 for the 32-bit version. Also note that this dnspy that is created by
agent smithers is a custom built dnspy. This custom build would open a port which is port
3003 and listen for connections from mcp clients and in order for that to work agent smithers
also created extensions that will work together with this custom built dnspy. In this project
that agent smithers did when you want to run this dnspy you need to run it from the command line
because you're supposed to give the path to the extension so you must put a parameter dash dash
extension directory and provide the path so what i did was to simplify it for you guys instead of
having to run from the command line and specify the path to the extensions i've copied the
extensions inside here i created a new folder called extensions and put extensions inside here
so all you need to do is just run no need to open a command line right click this run as administrator
so that it will listen on port 3003 you need to run as administrator or if you want the 32-bit
version, you run this one. Right click and run as administrator. It will automatically load the
extensions from the extensions folder over here. Same thing with the .NET Framework 4.8. I've
created the extensions folder here. When you want to run .NET Framework, you also choose the
appropriate one. If you want the 64-bit one, you right click this and run as administrator
and it will automatically load the extensions from here, from this folder.
And also, if you want to run the 32-bit one, you do the same.
Just right-click this.
Now note carefully that in Agent Smithers' original GitHub project, Extension Example
1, there were no extensions for .NET 8.
So I had to manually tweak the project to make it built for .NET 8.
Agent Smithers only created it for .NET 4.8.
I had to tweak it to build extensions for .NET 8 as well as .NET 4.8.
You can see the example given by Agent Smithers over here.
If I go back, the example Agent Smithers did is to run the .NET framework 4.8.
Over here you see 4.8.
Agent Smith has got 2 extensions projects.
example 1 and 2 over here. Only example 1 will work with the MCP server. Extension 2 does not
have an MCP server. You can still build for .NET 8, but it doesn't run the MCP server. So, if you're
trying to build this on your own, you will need to use extensions example 1 and make the modification
to build for .NET 8 as well. But I've saved you all that headache and already built the release
for you all you need to do is just download my final release and it will
work out of the box so in the next lesson I will show you how to run it and
use it for reverse engineering. So that's all for this video. Thank you for
watching